---
layout: post
title:  "Books I've Read in 2022"
date:   2022-02-06 00:00:01 -0500
categories: jekyll update
---
## Books I Read in 2022

2022 started off *extremely* rocky for me. I was trying to fly back from California to Washington D.C. when a winter storm shut down Reagan International Airport and even **I-95**. All in all, it took me over a day to get back home (and over three days to get my car back), but luckily for me, I am a prepared traveller. I always bring a book with me when I fly so that my devices can stay charged and ready to go in case of an emergency. Which leads me to the first book I read in 2022:

## *Prey* - Michael Crichton
This book is all about nanotechnology and how it can go wrong. It's a lovely concept, and probably revolutionary for its time, but I couldn't help but recognize that my own brain could imagine a far better story than the one given. Maybe it's due to having lived through COVID-19 for the past two years. This book however, has a wonderful first page that captures the imagination and prepares it for glorious, terrifying things to come and then follows it with five hundred more that mostly fail to live up to its promises. I enjoyed the book overall, but it fell abit short for my tastes. Taking place mostly in the desert with nothing meaningful around and a twist that was predictable and too ridiculous to take seriously, the book I feel deserves a 3/5 for its execution and a 5/5 for its concept.

## *Refactoring* - Martin Fowler
I bought this book to help me get the legacy codebase at my work under control. It failed in that regard and directed me to a different book, *Working Effectively with Legacy Code* by Michael Feathers. However, this book I am sure will Influence and help me in the months and years to come. It's ideas are sleek and innovative, and the prose is simple enough for even a basic code monkey like myself to understand. I can see why most software engineers recommend this book. I am sure I will keep referencing it throughout my career. 

## *Working Effectively with Legacy Code* - Michael Feathers
This book is worth its weight in gold. If you are a software engineer and don't already own this book, stop what you are doing and go out and buy it. It is a delightful manual for getting hard to test systems under a testing harness. Some of the solutions aren't pretty, but as the book suggests, surgery rarely is. The book is structured as a FAQ allowing it to answer pertinent questions easily and effectively. Easily one of the best technical books I have ever read, the book oozes knowledge from every single page and empowers the reader to become a better software engineer. 

## *The Haunting of Hill House* - Shirley Jackson
I picked this book up after falling in love with the Netflix adaptation but never got around to actually reading it. The show may in fact be my favorite show I have ever watched on television, so naturally I was scared to tarnish its reputation in my brain by reading the book. Gosh, what an idiotic thought that turned out to be! The novella is is a lovely haunted house story told from the first person perspectives of one of the tennants of the house, Eleanor. We follow Eleanor's journey to Hill House and notice her becoming more paranoid with each passing moment finalizing in a crescendo of a final chapter. This is how horror stories should end - without closure and without explanation. That's what makes it scary. Honestly, while the book does not hold the title of "Best Book I have Ever Read", it did embolden my love for the show. The show delicately pays homage to the book from the cup of stars, writings on the wall, and all the things that go bump in the night while providing a modern retelling of its sinister storyline. I loved the book, especially the part where my cat jumped on the bed and I yelped in panic.

## *The Art of Unit Testing* - Roy Osherove
This book is one that I read in preperation for a big project at work. I read this concurrently with *Refactoring* and *Working Effectively with Legacy Code* and the three together wholly prepared me for the task at hand. The book covers simple concepts of defining a unit test, giving wonderful examples, and goes deeply into defining best practices, how to test, and where to draw the lines. It goes as in depth as you can possibly get into the subject, yet remains relevant and engrossing the entire time. I do not find books like this boring, for they always leave me wonderously impressed at the genius expressed as simplicity. That truly is the sign of a good technical book.

## *Bird Box* - Josh Malerman
*Bird Box* is a weird one for me. Back when the movie came out, I loved the opening scene. I thought the intense, unprompted terror unlocked something deep within me that has been on my mond ever since. The pandemic only heightened these residual feelings. How would I react if the world suddenly, abruptly, was thrown into chaos like that? Unfortunately, the rest of the movie didn't land for me. I thought Sandra Bullock carried the rest of the movie on her back, and the movie did not live up to the promise of its opening. *Bird Box* the book, however, fixed everything wrong with the movie for me. Gone was the sudden, abrupt opening and instead found a great crescendo of madness that did not overstay its welcome. The characters acted more sanely in the book, and the drama did not feel manufactured. I had a tough time putting this one down. Highly recommend for someone looking for a thriller that is a bit different.

## *The Ballad of Black Tom* - Victor LaValle and *The Horror at Red Hook* - H.P. Lovecraft
As a teenager, I loved HP Lovecraft's work. I loved the cosmic horror he described that has influenced countless forms of media I have enjoyed, including the video game *Bloodborne* by FROM Software. In my creative writing class, I even wrote a story that mimicked his style of confusing writings that insoired and instilled a sense of madness and unreality. However, Lovecraft is a controversial figure in the literary world to my understanding. LaValle confronts Lovecraft's racism in this fantastic retelling of one of Lovecraft's short stories - *The Horror at Red Hood*. In this retelling, LaValle has addressed racial issues from the 1920s (an entire century ago) that still plague our society today. I couldn't put this novella down, and read the entire thing in 2 sittings, with the only break being that I had to go to bed last night. 
